---
title: "2025-05-12 Vac weekly"
tags:
  - "vac-updates"
date: 2025-05-12
lastmod: 2025-05-12
draft: false
---

## Vac 2025/05/12

### vac:p2p:
- `ift:2025q1-gossipsub-perf-improvements`
    - Worked on nimbus integration in Ethshadow. [Modified nimbus fork here](https://github.com/ufarooqstatus/ethshadow/tree/nimbus_support) 
	    - Had to add a bare minimal support for umash and signalfd system calls in shadow simulator [modified fork here](https://github.com/ufarooqstatus/shadow/tree/nimbus_fix).
	Nimbus BN nodes work fine now, but VC nodes exit (result defect, probably in bearssl, or signalfd)
	    - Trying to run nimbus BN with lighthouse VC and Geth EL. Currently resolving inconsistent genesis state error 
  - Looking into performance comparison for current gossipsub proposals 
- `vac:p2p:ift:2025q2-nimlibp2p-kad-dht:routing-and-rpc`
    - More progress in [nim-libp2p#1324](https://github.com/vacp2p/nim-libp2p/pull/1324).
    - Added most of the logic for find node, and basic implementation of routing table
    - I have started to write test units for the code
- `vac:p2p:acz:2025q2-acz-consulting:libp2p-mix-consulting`
    - Debug why number of streams were not decreasing after mix connections were closed
    - It was due to a difference in the signature of the functions to close a stream :(
- `vac:p2p:ift:2025q2-nimlibp2p-maintenance:maintenance`
    - [nim-quic#70](https://github.com/vacp2p/nim-quic/pull/70) feat: accept and close connections gracefully
- `vac:p2p:ift:2025q2-nimlibp2p-webtransport:http3`
    - continue work on http3 client [nim-quic #68](https://github.com/vacp2p/nim-quic/pull/68)
    - implemeted client barebones
    - started working on event loop - transfering data from/to underlying QUIC stack and nghttp3 
    - coarse tasks to be implemented after:
        - reading settings
        - sending request
        - reading response
- `vac:p2p:ift:2025q2-nimlibp2p-autotls:acme-registration`
    - Added a test for ACME account registration
    - Fixed [key generation on AutoTLS script](https://github.com/gmelodie/nim-autotls/commit/5f2715548a7e85e0982e3511c9c8bb7084af66d2)
- `vac:p2p:ift:2025q2-nimlibp2p-autotls`
    - Updated roadmap with [new tasks for AutoTLS](https://github.com/vacp2p/roadmap/pull/152)
    - Created [draft PR for AutoTLS](https://github.com/vacp2p/nim-libp2p/pull/1358) in `nim-libp2p`
- `misc/admin`
    - 1 CC 2d off
    - 1 CC 1d off

### vac:tke:
- `admin`
  - 5 days off (compensating weekend in Split + public holidays)
  - review comms strategy doc and discuss with Santiago
  - review and add content to Juan's Split summary doc 
  - other follow ups from Split
- `vac:tke:nomos:macroeconomy::preliminary-blockspace`
  - lengthy discussions about the requirements of this study with Nomos team
- `vac:tke:nomos:macroeconomy::preliminary-block-rewards`
  - Update blockspace and block rewards spec with constraints and requirements based on discussions
- `vac:tke:nomos:macroeconomy::revision-economic-model`
  - reviewed the Blend Protocol v1 doc
- `vac:tke:nomos:macroeconomy:block-rewards`
  - Working on actionable items from IFT all hands
  - Taking over TFM work
  - Familiarizing myself with documentation of blockspace
- `vac:tke:nomos:macroeconomy:network-state-infra`
  - review the plan from Split and organize work
- `vac:tke:ift:tokenomics-research-forum::token-valuation`
  - continued the analysis of the token valuation metrics using PLS Regression
- `vac:tke:status:karma-incentives:karma-params`
  - review the plan from Split and organize work
  - Working on data analysis for Linea, which will in turn be used to derive the tiers for Karma

### vac:qa:
- `nomos:2025q2-da-testing:data-confidentiality` 
    - test: Da networking encryption
    [PR 1264 - in progress](https://github.com/logos-co/nomos/pull/1264)
- `waku:2025q2-interop-testing:maintenance`
    - Errors related to sub/unsubscribe [reported to devs](https://discord.com/channels/1110799176264056863/1111541184490393691/1370219081105670265)
 - `waku:2025q2-waku-sync-testing:unit `
   - Finished state transition tests in [PR 97](https://github.com/waku-org/nwaku/pull/3397)
   - Added stress tests in same PR
   - Added edge /corner tests same PR 
   - Found inaccurate results when sending message with time difference will discuss it with Simon this week
- `2025q2-nim-libp2p-testing:gossipsub-extended` 
  - updated another old PR with tests - [test(gossipsub): control message](https://github.com/vacp2p/nim-libp2p/pull/1191) - in review - waiting for the 2nd approval 
- `admin/misc` 
	- Parental leave 5 CC days  
	- Day off 3 CC days

### vac:dst:
- `admin/misc`
    - ooo after offsite

### vac:sc:
- `status:2025q2-sn-native-bridge-yield-bearing-module:research-design`
  -  continue research + tests on the bridge yielding functionality
- `status:2025q2-maintaining-status-contracts`
    - Move `vaultData.lockUntil` into `StakeVault`
        - https://github.com/vacp2p/staking-reward-streamer/pull/213
    - Started working on AccessControl for `Karma` as non-upgrade version
        - https://github.com/vacp2p/staking-reward-streamer/pull/214
- `admin/misc`
    - Write down team lead tasks to prepare for parental leave
        - https://www.notion.so/Team-lead-work-and-responsibilities-1eb8f96fb65c80bf89c8e7a29d44d910

### vac:acz:
- `ift:2025q2-zerokit:parallel-computation-study`
    - Reviewd [PR](https://github.com/vacp2p/zerokit/pull/296) and try to solved nvm installed building issue in my env. Decided to merge current solution and maybe later open task for shell scripts for building zerokit
  - Resolved build issue in rln-wasm. 
  - Updated README for the rln-wasm module [PR](https://github.com/vacp2p/zerokit/pull/296).
   - [PR](https://github.com/vacp2p/zerokit/pull/306) is reviewed. 
- `ift:2025q2-de-mls-tesnet:commit-and-proposal`
    - Start working on splitting commit message to proposal and commit message
- `ift:2025q2-libp2p-mix-testnet:dockerize`
    - Resolved LPChannel stream count issue — confirmed no spikes under yamux. Docker is in [here](https://github.com/vacp2p/dst-gossipsub-test-node/tree/dockerized-mix-gossipsub-dockerfile-1).
- `ift:2025q2-libp2p-mix-testnet:update-rfc`
    - Continued Mix RFC refactor (see [mix-rev1 branch](https://github.com/vacp2p/rfc-index/tree/mix-rev1)); updated sections through 5.4.
- `ift:2025q2-libp2p-mix-testnet:surb-implementation`
    - Introductory discussion on SURBs and Mix protocol context.
- `ift:2025q2-de-mls-tesnet:test-deployment`
    - Read [de-mls source code](https://github.com/vacp2p/de-mls)
        - Read [Kameo book](https://docs.page/tqwewe/kameo) - actor system used in de-mls
    - Read some Waku rfc
        - [23](https://rfc.vac.dev/waku/informational/23/topics/)
        - [14](https://rfc.vac.dev/waku/standards/core/14/message)
        - [12](https://rfc.vac.dev/waku/standards/core/12/filter)
        - [13](https://rfc.vac.dev/waku/standards/core/13/store)
        - [36](https://rfc.vac.dev/waku/standards/core/36/bindings-api)
    - Read [de-mls architecture doc](https://github.com/vacp2p/vac.dev/blob/acz-de-mls/rlog/2024-12-23-de-mls.mdx#architecture-notes)
- `ift:2025q2-zerokit:merkle-tree-improvement`
  - Continued working on Merkle tree refactoring to improve parallelism [PR](https://github.com/vacp2p/zerokit/pull/306):
    - Improved Merkle tree parallelism by adding support for other tree types.
    - Added more comprehensive tests and benchmarks to cover parallel execution case.
    - And finalized the benchmark report in [this comment](https://github.com/vacp2p/zerokit/issues/289#issuecomment-2865107611).
- `ift:2025q2-rln-status-l2:rpc-node-modification`
  - Started studying Java and read related material for this task as we discussed with the team. 
   - Java grpc poc: https://github.com/sydhds/grpc_java_hello
- `ift:2025q2-zerokit:iden3-witness-review`
    - [Github issue gently ping](https://github.com/iden3/circom-witnesscalc/issues/25) in order to have a answer
- `ift:2025q2-rln-status-l2:prover-service`
    - Share [scenarios](https://www.notion.so/Status-RLN-v2-scenarios-1e68f96fb65c8067a907f5dc6e55f278) for the status L2 team to review in [Discord thread](https://discord.com/channels/864066763682218004/1335985839372636193) - answer some comments
    - Explore grpc custom codec [pb-jelly](https://github.com/dropbox/pb-jelly)
        - poc: https://github.com/sydhds/tonic_pb_jelly
- `ift:2025q2-zerokit:semaphore-parts-bench`
  - [draft pr](https://github.com/vacp2p/zerokit/pull/305) for poseidon work
  - [draft pr](https://github.com/vacp2p/zerokit/pull/308) for imt work
  - Got first benchmark comparison done between our poseidon and light-poseidon. Initial analysis: ours is about [10% faster](https://github.com/vacp2p/zerokit/pull/305).
  - Made my firsh chip at getting a merkle tree benchmark comparison.
- `ift:2025q2-de-mls-tesnet:consensus-rfc`
    - Refine consensus RFC by adding liveness section as we discussed in offsite. Then the [RFC PR](https://github.com/vacp2p/rfc-index/pull/142) is ready to review. 
- `ift:2025q2-rln-status-l2:maintain`
    - Discuss the prover [scenario doc](https://www.notion.so/Status-RLN-v2-scenarios-1e68f96fb65c8067a907f5dc6e55f278) with Status team and clarify some points, such as denylist and prover.
- `ift:2025q2-de-mls-tesnet:multi-admin-rfc` 
    - Started the task with writing the [de-MLS flow doc](https://www.notion.so/de-MLS-Flow-1ef8f96fb65c80ecb5bfe84abe9a964d) 
    - Create [a doc](https://www.notion.so/Finding-new-name-for-admin-role-in-de-MLS-1ef8f96fb65c809188b1fb7b911e4a2d) about an alternative name of "admin" in de-MLS.
- `ift:2025q2-de-mls-tesnet:blogpost-de-mls-over-waku`
    - The [de-MLS flow doc](https://www.notion.so/de-MLS-Flow-1ef8f96fb65c80ecb5bfe84abe9a964d) is used for [de-MLS blogpost](https://github.com/vacp2p/vac.dev/pull/159) too. 
- `nes:2025q2-nescience-consulting:unifying-q1-docs`
    - Regarding the task, create [a unified document](https://www.notion.so/nes-2025q2-nescience-consulting-unifying-q1-docs-1eb8f96fb65c80c78c53d78004827ebc) that covers R1 research task in Q1. 
- `admin/misc`
    - Prepared new tasks for de-mls roadmap regarding discussion on all-hands [PR](https://github.com/vacp2p/roadmap/pull/153)
    - 1 cc is ooo for two days (bank holiday)
    - 1 cc is ooo for three days (sick leave)
    - 1 cc is ooo for one day (bank holiday)
    - 1 cc is ooo for whole week 

### vac:nim:
- `ift:2025q1-nim-ide-tooling`
    - Initial implementation for nimsuggest import support #24937 https://github.com/nim-lang/Nim/pull/24937
    - fixes ci (https://github.com/nim-lang/langserver/pull/341)
    - langserver release https://github.com/nim-lang/langserver/releases/tag/v1.12.0
    - vscode extension release https://github.com/nim-lang/vscode-nim/releases/
    - Updates changelog https://github.com/nim-lang/vscode-nim/pull/165
    - Update Readme. Bump version. Fix small issue https://github.com/nim-lang/vscode-nim/pull/166
- `ift:2025q1-nimble`
    - lock implies setup fixes #1388 https://github.com/nim-lang/nimble/pull/1389
    - dump action now can dump --collect and --solve https://github.com/nim-lang/nimble/pull/1392
    - Researching nim selection issue

### vac:rfc:

### vac:sec:
- `ift:2025q2-signatory-registry-implementation:signatory-inventory-revalidation`
    - started populating the new defined schema
- `ift:2025q2-sec-infra-maintenance:knowbe4-renewal`
    - Started the renewal process
- `ift:2025q2-awareness-program:launch-cybersecurity-training-campaign`
    - Lauched the training for those who got caught during the last phishing campaign (18)

### vac:nes:
- `state-separation-architecture-poc:sc-update`
    - Looked into SE/DE previous works, still did not come up with a concrete way to do it. We will take the decision in the team this week.
    - Answered  doubts about Q4/Q1 documentations.
    - Worked on Privacy flags and investigated whether we need True flags or not.
    - Met with engineers regarding provability issues and hybrid smart contracts.
    -  Revised and investigated how other projects are using smart contracts, I think we can make a better job.
- `state-separation-architecture-poc:priv-impl`
    - Private provability model.
    - Call with Moudy and Oleksandr on provability issues.
    - Private state provability proposal PR.
    - Smart contracts execution types discussion.
- `state-separation-architecture-poc:onboarding’
    - Research wise I started to write some very high level notes on what I understand about NSSA with my own words (see here). Also I went through Moudy’s answers to my questions about Q4/Q1 docs and discussed with him about some points in UTXOs design (see here) and the need of privacy flags in the system.
    - Engineering: I made progress with the update to the utxo crate (draft PR here). While doing so I created a PR (here) and some Issues (#66, #69 #70, #71) with questions and comments about implementations that seemed to deviate from the current specifications.

